I am Bohdan Hawrylyshyn. Born in 1926 in Koropets,
I am a Canadian, Swiss, and Ukrainian economist,
thinker, benefactor, and advisor to governments
and large companies worldwide. I was a full member
of the Club of Rome, a long-time director of
Switzerland's International Management Institute,
a founder of the European Management Forum
in Davos, a fellow, and a member of the
Board of the World Academy of Art and Science.
I spent most of my childhood on my father's farm.
During World War II, I was captured by the Nazis
in 1944 and displaced to Germany. After the war, I
spent almost two years in a displaced person camp
and afterward moved to Canada as a lumberjack.
While working at various jobs I was admitted to
the University of Toronto. My admission received
media coverage and public disruption, as I was the
first refugee to get admitted to the university
in Canada. In 1952 I graduated with a BA and an
MA in engineering at the University of Toronto.
I later worked as an engineer, researcher,
and manager at various enterprises worldwide.
I also was a consultant for General Electric,
IBM, Unilever, and Philips and an advisor to
several countries. After Ukraine declared
independence in 1991, I was an advisor
to several Ukrainian prime ministers, and to
most chairmen of the Ukrainian Verkhovna Rada.
In 1991, I created and became the head of
the Council of Advisors to the Presidium of
the Ukrainian Parliament. I also facilitated
the establishment of the International Centre
for Policy Studies. In Ukraine, the fruitful
activities of my work are highly appreciated
by a broad community of education, science,
and state officials. I was elected a foreign
member of the National Academy of Sciences
of Ukraine and was awarded an Order of Merit.
I am a merited scientist of Ukraine and held
honorary doctorates from numerous institutes.
I died in 2016 at the age of 90 in Kyiv, Ukraine,
doing my best for my nation and the world.
To you I whisper, Learn, Dream, Act.
This is how you make anything a reality.